Q1) Which of the following is not required for the distribution of the sample proportion to be nearly normal?

Observations should be independent.

There should be at least 10 failures.

->Sample size should be at least 30 and the population distribution should not be extremely skewed.
Correct Response 
Recognize that the Central Limit Theorem (CLT) is about the distribution of point estimates, and that given certain conditions, this distribution will be nearly normal.

In the case of the proportion the CLT tells us that if
(1) the observations in the sample are independent,

(2) the sample size is sufficiently large (checked using the success/failure condition: np≥10 and n(1−p)≥10),

then the distribution of the sample proportion will be nearly normal, centered at the true population proportion and with a standard error of p(1−p)n−−−−−√.

p^∼N(mean=p,SE=p(1−p)n−−−−−−−√)
When considering the distribution of the sample proportion, we don’t have a requirement of n ≥ 30. To determine if the sample size of categorical data is high enough, we instead check the success-failure condition.

There should be at least 10 successes.

Q2) When performing a hypothesis test on proportions (either where H0:p=p0 or where H0:p1=p2) you should use the observed number of successes and failures when checking conditions.

True

->False
Correct Response 
For confidence intervals use p^ (observed sample proportion) when calculating the standard error and checking the success/failure condition. For hypothesis tests use p0 (null value) when calculating the standard error and checking the success/failure condition.

Use the observed number of successes and failures when calculating a confidence interval for a proportion, but not when doing a hypothesis test. In a hypothesis test for a proportion, you should use np0 and n(1−p0) successes and failures; that is, the expected number based on the null proportion.

Depends on the context

Observed proportion for one sample, expected proportion for two samples.

Q3) The campaign manager for a congressional candidate claims that the candidate has more than 50% support from the district’s electorate. A newspaper collects a simple random sample of 500 likely voters in this district and estimates the support for this candidate to be 52%. The p-value for the hypothesis test evaluating the campaign manager’s claim is 0.19. Which of the below is correct?

The data provide convincing evidence for the campaign manager’s claim.

The success-failure condition is not met, so this p-value is not reliable.

95% of random samples of size 500 will estimate the support for this candidate to be 52%.

->If in fact 50% of likely voters support this candidate, the probability of obtaining a random sample of 500 likely voters where 52% or more support the candidate is 0.19.
Correct Response 
p-value = P(observed or more extreme test statistic | H0 true)

Q4) Voters in the U.S. state of New Jersey voted on a measure that would legalize sports betting. Before the vote, SurveyUSA asked a random sample of registered voters the following question: “’If betting on sports were to become legal in New Jersey, would you yourself place bets?” The distribution of responses by age group is shown in the table below. Consider a hypothesis test evaluating whether there is a difference between proportions of 18 to 34 year olds and 35+ year olds who would never place bets. Using the information from the table, calculate the standard error for this hypothesis test. Choose the closest answer.



0.4931

0.5535

0.0024

0.5758

->0.0485

Q5) “In statistical inference for proportions, standard error (SE) is calculated differently for hypothesis tests and confidence intervals.” Which of the following is the best justification for this statement?

->Because in hypothesis testing, we assume the null hypothesis is true, hence we calculate SE using the null value of the parameter. In confidence intervals, there is no null value, hence we use the sample proportion(s).
Correct Response 
The question refers to the following learning objective(s):

Note that the reason for the difference in calculations of standard error is the same as in the case of the single proportion: when the null hypothesis claims that the two population proportions are equal, we need to take that into consideration when calculating the standard error for the hypothesis test, and use a common proportion for both samples.

Because if we used the same method for hypothesis tests as we did for confidence intervals, the calculation would be impossible.

Because statistics is full of arbitrary formulas.

Because in hypothesis testing we’re interested in the variability of the true population distribution, and in confidence intervals we’re interested in the variability of the sampling distribution.
